---
path: "/caterina-sforza"
date: 2021-02-20
title: "Caterina Sforza"
subTitle: "Do you ever miss Game of Thrones, with all its political machinations and incest?"
author: "Gianluca Belvisi"
cardImage: "cover.jpg"
featureImage: "cover.jpg"
onHover: "click!"
hashtags: "history, italy, renaissance"
---


Do you ever miss Game of Thrones, with all its political machinations and incest? Well, stop hurting yourself rewatching the latest seasons, and read about the Italian Renaissance instead! It's got similar tropes, but significantly fewer dragons ex machina.
Set between the 14th and 15th century, Renaissance Italy was a sort of Westeros, divided into states led by powerful families, like the Aragons in Naples, the Pope in Rome, the Medici in Florence, the Borgias in Milan, and stench of rotten fish in Venice.
The period was saturated with such incredible characters, like Lorenzo de Medici, also called The Magnificent, probably by himself; or the polymath Leonardo da Vinci, the scheming Niccolo' Machiavelli, the Shakespearean Lucrezia Borgia. Though my favorite is by far Caterina Sforza.
Coming from a family that got promoted to nobility thanks to their fighting prowess, Caterina was a mix of the two Stark sisters: humble but cunning when circumstances allowed for it, and absolute freaking badass when push came to shove.
For instance, in 1488 Caterina was defending the castle of Ravaldino, in Forli', which was sieged by her enemies, the Orsis. To try and break the stalemate, the Orsis brought Caterina's young children in front of the fortress and threatened to slit their throats had Caterina not opened the gates.
Well, legend says that Caterina went on the ramparts and yelled: "Go ahead and do it, you fools!" then she raised her skirt. "I have the means to make others!"
That's when she got the nickname The Tigress of Forli', which is also the title of a book on her life that I thoroughly enjoyed. Best read with a map of Italy on your lap as if it was Middle-earth. The dwarves are the Sardinians.

This is her portrayed by Botticelli as someone who, despite being uber pregnant, gets shit done, which is quintessential Caterina.

This is the castle of Ravaldino, where Caterina's kids were supposedly traumatized for life by her mother...

If reading is not in your toolset, you can still enjoy bits of Renaissance with a couple of TV shows. The first one is Medici: Masters of Florence, on Amazon Prime.
I haven't watched it, so I can't vouch for its quality, but it stars Dustin Hoffman and the dumbest of the Stark siblings. The story should include the Pazzi Conspiracy, a sort of red wedding that was orchestrated by Caterina's idiot husband.

In season 3, for the casting of Caterina, they just decided to clone Emilia Clarke...

Or you could watch The Borgias, with Jeremy Irons. It's on HBO, which means probably a lot of barely justifiable nudities.

I don't advise that you play Assassin's Creed II. It's not a very good game, I'm not sure how much of that actually happened, and Caterina there speaks like Super Mario. I tried switching to the Italian language, but was compelled to revert when Ezio's mother said "topa".

https://www.youtube.com/watch?v=mAQuuwj573M&t=12s